---
layout: post
title: meta post 
date: 2024-06-25
lang: en
---

# meta post

## Intro

Yes this is going to be post about this post. So far all this typing has been to get a blog working the way I want it to. Now, this typing is for a person (you!)- oh my! I will skip my tendency to go meta again (I'm not going to talk about what is good writing for a person, I'm not, no, not yet). This is about my journey from point A; "I would like a blog", to point B; "I have a blog!". It was not a trivial travel. Here is that story. 

## Start

It started with a few requirements:
- Markdown or plain text of some kind - you know, a hacker blog
- Internationalization - I have a punta cat tld, besides, I'd like to use this opportunity to learn other languages.
- Prebuilt theme - I didn't want to build a website from scratch


My nice to haves were:
- Easy post creation with a command line
- Cross-language navigation
- Dark mode or toggle 


It turned out I got exactly what I required: a hacker blog. I hacked my way to this thing by forking Jekyll plugins and the theme, and cloning into git submodules in order to make the changes I needed. 

> Half way through this I noticed something in the source code of polyglot[^pg]: `lang_vars`! I could set `lang_vars: ["lang"]` in the Jekyll config in order to get a theme that supported translations. See, the Chirpy theme uses `lang`, but polyglot uses `default_lang`, so they don't work together, unless you set `lang` _through_ `lang_vars`. That is how I got an index page and menus with translations.



## Middle

So here I am, digging through source code and I'm thinking, wait this should be easy, shouldn't it? What else is out there? 

Alternatives
- Middleman - my usual go-to, but I didn't see a pre-built theme I could use.
- Hugo - very nice, but I also struggled to get translations of pages and found myself reading go code, and I left[^hugo]
- Zola - I should look into this one a bit more, but I liked this Chirpy theme so much and didn't see a theme close enough for Zola

[^hugo]: perhaps prematurely, I may try Hugo again in the future, maybe it was something I was doing wrong.

Aaaand, back I came to Jekyll. This time with the submodule strategy. 

With translations throughout and all pages in subdirectories by language, I was ready for the secret plan: URI path rewrites based on location. 

I had seen this configuration option in Cloudflare.

> Which is an amazing service, btw. You should really check them out for any sort of cloud/hosting services, they have a--lot going on.

Now when it is reasonable to assume that you want the English version based on your location. Your request for the home page "/" gets secretly rewriten to "/en/", which has an index page with a link to, let's say, this post. That link goes to "/en/posts/2024-06-25-meta-post/". From there you can switch languages with a button that links to another language subdirectory, such as "/es/". 

## End

And there we have it. Some improvements could be made I'm sure. I can think of a couple small ones not worth mentioning. If there is a need for them, I have the hackable source code right in this repo. There may also be some pull requests upstream if these hacks seem to make sense. But that's all for now. The first blog post comes to an end.

adéu!






